# pcl_crop <!-- omit in toc -->

Cropping of **odered** [PointCloud2](http://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)s. The cropping is performed assuming the point cloud has been generated by a camera or similar from a single perspective. Cropping is mainly carried out in two dimensions from the perspective of the camera.

**Package Links**

* [Code API](https://ossianeriksson.github.io/autonomous-twizy/pcl_crop/html/index.html)

**Contents**

- [Nodelets](#nodelets)
  - [pcl_crop](#pcl_crop)
    - [Subscribed Topics](#subscribed-topics)
    - [Published Topics](#published-topics)
    - [Parameters](#parameters)

# Nodelets

## pcl_crop

Perfoms cropping of odered [PointCloud2](http://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html)s mainly in two dimensions from the perspective of an assumed camera generating the point cloud.

### Subscribed Topics

* `image` ([sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](http://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html))  
  Input point cloud.

### Published Topics

* `cropped` ([sensor_msgs/PointCloud2](http://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/PointCloud2.html))  
  Output point cloud (cropped version of `image`).

### Parameters

* `~zmin` (`double`, default: `0.0`)  
  Points in the point cloud with z value less than this value are discarded.

* `~zmax` (`double`, default: `10000.0`)  
  Points in the point cloud with z value greater than this value are discarded.

* `~crops` (`list`)  
  List of 2D crops to perform, see below for specification of list element parameters.

  - `~sensors[i]/xmin` (`double`, default: `0.0`)  
    Left edge of crop as fraction of source width.

  - `~sensors[i]/xmax` (`double`, default: `1.0`)  
    Right edge of crop as fraction of source width.

  - `~sensors[i]/ymin` (`double`, default: `0.0`)  
    Top edge of crop as fraction of source height.

  - `~sensors[i]/ymax` (`double`, default: `1.0`)  
    Bottom edge of crop as fraction of source height.

  - `~sensors[i]/interior` (`bool`, default: `false`)  
    A value of `true` indicates that the interiour of the rectagle defined by `~sensors[i]/xmin`, `~sensors[i]/xmax`, `~sensors[i]/ymin` and `~sensors[i]/ymax` is to be removed, `false` indicates that it is the outside which is to be cropped out.